Title: U.S. DOE Fusion Energy Sciences
URL: https://science.osti.gov/fes
Source Type: html
Domain: science.osti.gov
Content Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Search Query: nuclear fusion commercialization timeline 2025

Fusion Energy Sciences (FES) Hom... | U.S. DOE Office of Science (SC)

Protecting Against Large Damaging Energy Bursts in Fusion Energy Devices
Uncertainty Toolbox: A Software Toolbox for Quantifying Uncertainty and More
Inverted Plasma Shape Shows Promise for Future Fusion Power Plant Design
Improving Predictions for Fusion Device Transport
Advancing Quantum Technology: Tantalum's Impact on Next Generation Qubits
“Louvers” on the SPARC Fusion Device Should Exhaust Gases as Hot as a Star
An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Main Areas of Research Theory, Simulation, and Artificial Intelligence Fusion Materials and Internal Components Sustain a Burning Plasma Closing the Fusion Cycle Plasma Science and Technology
Dear Colleague Letter: FES solicits applications from private companies, universities, and/or national laboratories exploring volumetric neutron sources
Request for Application (RFA): The Genesis Mission: Transforming Science and Energy with AI
The Genesis Mission: Accelerating Fusion Energy Topical Webinar
Department of Energy Announces Early Career Research Program for 2026
Fusion energy can potentially allow us to harness the same processes stars use to produce energy right here on Earth. Fusion occurs when two nuclei combine to form a new nucleus, a process that releases a huge amount of energy. Controlling this process offers a possible long-term energy source that uses abundant resources for its fuel and does not produce long-lived radioactive waste.
The Department of Energy has been a leader in fusion energy research since the 1950s and supports groundbreaking advances today.
The DOE Fusion Energy Sciences (FES) program’s mission is to drive the scientific and technological foundation for a fusion energy source and support the development of a competitive U.S. fusion energy industry. To address these challenges, FES supports fundamental research in four major science areas.
In service of these drivers, FES supports fusion facilities in both the public and private sectors. Building on a foundation of research in academia, industry, and national laboratories, FES supports nationally coordinated public-private partnership programs to cultivate a growing fusion power industry.
The Fusion Energy Sciences program is guided by the Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap . This strategy describes how the fusion community can "Build," "Innovate," and "Grow" to create a leading, robust American fusion energy industry. It also ensures that FES core research aligns with closing gaps along the critical path to fusion energy.
Using some of the most advanced experimental capabilities, the most powerful supercomputers, and the fastest networks in the world today, DOE-supported scientists are undertaking research and development towards fundamental progress to establish fusion energy’s viability.
Please click the following link to continue:
Thank you for visiting our site. We hope your visit was informative and enjoyable.
About Organization Budget Field Operations Federal Advisory Committee Scientific and Technical Information History Honors & Awards Jobs Communication Resources Contact
Laboratories Ames National Laboratory Argonne National Laboratory Brookhaven National Laboratory Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Oak Ridge National Laboratory Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility Safety and Security Policy Laboratory Policy Operations Program Management Acquisition Management
Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility
Science Features Science Highlights News Archive
Universities Interactive Grants Map SC In Your State
User Facilities User Facilities at a Glance User Resources User Statistics Policies and Processes Frequently Asked Questions
Funding Office of Sponsored Activities Topical Funding Opportunity Awards Award Search / Public Abstracts Find Funding Early Career Research Program Digital Research Data Management Acknowledgements of Federal Support
Initiatives Artificial Intelligence for Science Biopreparedness Research Virtual Environment (BRaVE) Data Resources (PuRe Data) Microelectronics National Virtual Biotechnology Laboratory (NVBL) Quantum Information Science (QIS)
Biopreparedness Research Virtual Environment (BRaVE)
National Virtual Biotechnology Laboratory (NVBL)
Programs Advanced Scientific Computing Research Basic Energy Sciences Biological and Environmental Research Fusion Energy Sciences High Energy Physics Nuclear Physics Project Assessment Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer Isotope R&D and Production (IRP)
Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists
Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer
(ARCHIVE) Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (FESAC)
Theory, Simulation, and Artificial Intelligence
Fusion Materials and Internal Components