Title: TAE Technologies fusion power
URL: https://tae.com/fusion-power-page/
Source Type: html
Domain: tae.com
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: IEA World Energy Outlook 2024 fusion

TAE Technologies - Clean, Safe, Abundant Fusion Energy

A forever solution for clean, carbon-free energy.
Building the Future of Commercial Fusion Power
What is ‘Advanced Beam-Driven FRC’? Breaking Down TAE’s Fusion Technology
Fusion is the same process that powers the sun and stars. It is environmentally friendly, safe, and capable of sustaining the planet for thousands of years. TAE’s proprietary technology will generate and distribute cost-competitive, 24/7 on-demand fusion power to address the growing global need and secure our energy future.
Company About Us News Careers Leadership Collaborators
Our Technologies TAE Fusion Power TAE Power Solutions TAE Life Sciences History of Innovation
Resources Press Kit FAQ Good Clean Energy Podcast Blog Fusion Future Poster Series STEM Events
Streamlined for commercialization TAE’s fusion machine design is compact and linear so a commercial fusion power plant would be readily scalable for mass manufacturing.
Cleanest and safest fuel TAE is pursuing fusion with hydrogen-boron (a.k.a. p-B11 or p11B) because it is abundant and non-radioactive, making it the most sustainable option for operating and maintaining commercial fusion power plants.
Original fusion technology TAE’s technique to produce fusion power is called “advanced beam-driven Field-Reversed Configuration (FRC).” It’s a results-driven innovation proprietary to TAE that solves challenges to delivering scalable, sustainable commercial fusion power.
A fusion machine must be able to confine plasma – the shapeless, superhot, and electrically charged fourth state of matter – to create a fusion reaction. When a fusion machine successfully shapes unwieldy plasma into a collected mass and contains it within its inner chamber, this is called plasma confinement.
A fusion machine must also sustain plasma confinement without the plasma breaking down or cooling off. Maintaining a hot, controlled plasma is plasma stability. If you want commercial power, you have to maintain plasma stability indefinitely.
Most fusion approaches use lasers or extremely large magnets to squeeze plasma into shape and achieve plasma confinement .
The Field-Reversed Configuration, or FRC, is a fusion method that uses a combination of magnets and a plasma’s own magnetic fields to achieve plasma confinement. FRCs historically have had poor plasma stability. TAE’s “advanced beam-driven” innovation solves that problem.