Title: National Academies fusion pilot plant strategy
URL: https://www.nationalacademies.org/read/25991/chapter/7
Source Type: html
Domain: nationalacademies.org
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: SPARC fusion commercial operation date

Read "Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid" at NAP.edu

5 Strategy and Roadmap for a Pilot Plant
Chapter: 5 Strategy and Roadmap for a Pilot Plant
IN ADDITION TO READING ONLINE, THIS TITLE IS AVAILABLE IN THESE FORMATS:
PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION: CONCEPTUAL AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN (2021-2028)
PRIOR TO START OF OPERATION OF A PILOT PLANT: FINAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION (2028-2032)
FIRST PHASE OF PILOT PLANT OPERATION (COMPLETED BY 2035-2040)
SECOND PHASE OF PILOT PLANT OPERATION (COMPLETED BY 2040-2045)
MyNAP members SAVE 10% off online. Not a MyNAP member yet? Register for a free account to start saving and receiving special member only perks.
In response to the statement of task, the committee took the feedback from the utilities into account, which framed the timeline requirements for the pilot plant. As noted above, the electrical utilities in the United States are working toward the transition to low-carbon emission electricity production by 2050. This motivates exploring a schedule to bring a pilot plant into operation between 2035 and 2040: this is aggressive relative to recent construction of large fusion facilities and other countries’ fusion program plans, with the exception of China’s CFETR program and the United Kingdom’s recently announced STEP program. Both programs seek to be the first to put electricity from fusion on the grid. Unlike the program plans developed by the Community Planning Process (CPP), 1 which considered a comprehensive bottom-up approach that is appropriate to developing a program and includes many elements beyond those associated with a pilot plant, the committee took a more targeted approach to explore what would be needed to bring a pilot plant into operation as soon as possible for fusion to be considered as a viable generation alternative during the investment window. This schedule-driven approach will require the execution of many parallel activities and engagement of a broad group of participants in the private and public sectors as discussed in Chapter 4 . In parallel with the development of this report, Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (FESAC) is addressing the schedule implications and priorities of the CPP report. Ultimately, it will be necessary to reconcile the upcoming FESAC report and its priorities with the top-down schedule-driven approach described herein.
In the 2019 report Final Report of the Committee on a Strategic Plan for U.S. Burning Plasma Research (hereafter the “ Burning Plasma report”), 2 the tokamak
concept was identified as the primary track to a fusion pilot plant and the stellarator as the leading alternative. The statement of task for this report does not presume which fusion concept to pursue for a pilot plant, and this committee did not evaluate different concepts. Since both technical performance and economic attractiveness are major considerations for a pilot plant, a parallel approach in the development of more than one fusion concept, at least to the preliminary design level, is appropriate. A key element in the successful Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) program was the competition between companies. That spirit of competition to develop the most viable pilot plant is appropriate. While specifying the precise number of pilot plant teams is premature, two to four design teams can be envisioned to encourage competition.
Conclusion: To meet the challenge of operating a pilot plant between 2035 and 2040, the development of fusion concepts, technology, and pilot plant designs will need to be performed in parallel.
Parallel development of fusion concepts enables the schedule acceleration required for fusion to be ready as a possible generation alternative as the U.S. transitions to low-carbon emission electricity. Such an approach, however, enables schedule acceleration and is needed for fusion to be ready as a possible generation alternative as the mix in the U.S. transition to low-carbon emission. Parallel development, however, includes inherent risk where some lines of research may not be successful and additional resources will be needed to accomplish multiple lines of activity at the same time as compared to completing activities sequentially. Using the 2019 Burning Plasma report as an example, additional resources will be required for the pilot plant and to complete the necessary research and development identified in that report.
Six phases have been identified in the development and operation of a fusion pilot plant: (1) conceptual and preliminary design, (2) final design and construction, (3) start of operation, (4) first phase of operation, (5) second phase of operation, and (6) third phase of operation to take advantage of this unique facility. The scope of these phases is described below. The accompanying timeline illustrates when the various phases need to be implemented to commission a pilot plant into operation sometime between 2035-2040. Detailed planning and resource allocation would be required to develop a more accurate timeline. A timeline with the major elements is shown in Figure 5.1 .
The highly integrated nature of a pilot plant requires that both scientific and technical issues are comprehensively addressed. The goal of a lower cost pilot plant relies on innovations in science and technology. These must be performed and extensively evaluated prior to finalizing the design and initiating construction.
While substantial progress has occurred in achieving plasma parameters that may extrapolate to that needed for a pilot plant, outstanding technical issues remain for even the most mature fusion concepts. As discussed in the CPP report, the remaining gaps, which are significant, must be addressed to have confidence in the performance of a pilot plant.
Conclusion: Each successful pilot plant fusion concept must demonstrate that the requisite Lawson parameter to extrapolate fusion plasma gain, particle and energy confinement time, heat exhaust, stability, energetic particle confinement and sustainment, can be achieved with small extrapolation to the parameters needed for a pilot plant to provide confidence in the performance of the pilot plant.
The physics parameters required for evaluating a fusion concept for a pilot plant are broadly discussed in Chapters 3 and 4 . The parameters depend in detail on the fusion concept under consideration. These will need to be defined early in this phase to ensure that the experimental and theoretical program supports the timely evalua-
tion of the concept, and selection of these parameters must be made prior to making the decision to start construction.
As noted in the CPP report and discussed further in Chapter 4 , many technological issues are at a low technology readiness level (TRL) level, and the maturity of many of the technologies required for the pilot plant needs to increase. Furthermore, to improve the economic attractiveness, there is also a need for technological innovations. This was also highlighted in the FESAC Report on Transformative Enabling Capabilities for Efficient Advance Toward Fusion Energy, 3 which identified opportunities for technological innovation. Some of these are already being pursued by the fusion industry as well as by universities and national laboratories.
Conclusion: Critical technologies—such as large-bore, high-temperature superconducting magnets, blanket concepts, functional materials, plasma-facing materials, and tritium processing (including the development of low inventory systems)—have to increase in TRL to 6 or 7 to minimize the scale up to a pilot plant.
While the development of some technologies will facilitate many different fusion concepts, some fusion concepts require specific technologies to meet the goals identified in Chapter 3 . It is necessary to increase the maturity of critical technologies that have the largest impact on many different concepts while recognizing that the list of critical technologies may evolve as the design of the pilot plant evolves, for example through the conceptual design phase or as breakthrough developments occur. To illustrate this, most fusion concepts rely on deuterium-tritium (D-T) fuel, and development of blanket concepts to breed tritium and process tritium as described in Chapter 4 is needed. The use of hydrogen and boron, pure deuterium, or deuterium and helium-3 as the fuel would not require tritium breeding; however, a breakthrough in the plasma confinement and temperature is required and other technologies would have to be developed.
The regulatory framework required to obtain a construction and operations license is very important to develop an understanding of the cost and schedule for the pilot plant and eventually a first-of-a-kind (FOAK) power plant. This is discussed in more detail in Chapter 3 .
Conclusion: The regulatory framework for fusion should be well defined based on a risk-based approach appropriate to fusion.
The site of a pilot plant has important practical ramifications including public acceptance that can affect the cost an