Title: FIA 2025 global fusion industry coverage
URL: https://www.fusionindustryassociation.org/in-the-news-the-global-fusion-industry-in-2025/
Source Type: html
Domain: fusionindustryassociation.org
Content Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Search Query: SPARC fusion commercial operation date

In the News: The Global Fusion Industry in 2025 - Fusion Industry Association

In the News: The Global Fusion Industry in 2025
The FIA’s Global Fusion Industry in 2025 report launched on July 22 and reported over $2.5 billion in new investment in the last 12 months in fusion companies worldwide. This is the second largest yearly growth, and is testament to the growing global support that the fusion industry is experiencing.
Below is an extensive list of pieces discussing the report and its data. One of the FIA’s principal missions is to keep the public informed about developments across the global fusion industry, and its prospect to address the energy challenges of our time.
ABOUT POLICY MEMBERSHIP NEWS FAQ MEDIA LEARN EVENTS CONTACT
Subscribe and get fusion industry updates and stay on top of global fusion progress.
© 2026 Fusion Industry Association - Messaging, design and development by Mind Over Markets
Magnetic confinement: Plasma is heated to 100 million °C or more, then squeezed and held in place by strong magnetic fields, allowing many fusion reactions to occur. (Example: tokamaks, stellarators)
Inertial confinement: Tiny fuel pellets are struck by powerful lasers. The outer layer explodes outward, compressing the core to fusion conditions for a few nanoseconds, producing a brief but intense pulse of energy from each pellet. (Example: National Ignition Facility)
Hybrid systems: Combine compression (e.g., from lasers, plasma pistons, or mechanical impact) with moderate magnetic fields to reduce energy losses and improve confinement.
Electrostatic fusion: Uses high electric potentials to accelerate ions toward a central reaction zone, causing them to collide at high energies and fuse. The ions are guided and confined by electric fields rather than magnets, creating a compact environment for fusion reactions.
ABOUT ABOUT THE FIA STAFF BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOB OPPORTUNITIES
POLICY PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS REGULATORY CERTAINTY SCALING THE INDUSTRY
NEWS FROM THE FIA BLOG INDUSTRY REPORTS FUSION NEWS VIDEOS FUSION IN THE NEWS FOR THE MEDIA
FROM THE FIA BLOG INDUSTRY REPORTS FUSION NEWS VIDEOS
MEMBERSHIP FULL MEMBERS AFFILIATE MEMBERS EDUCATION & RESEARCH PARTNERS
LEARN ABOUT FUSION ENERGY FAQ FUSION VS. FISSION PATH TO COMMERCIAL FUSION
Reuters Reuters reports that global investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 , and highlights how investors in fusion are becoming increasingly diversified, including oil and technology companies.
Reuters reports that global investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 , and highlights how investors in fusion are becoming increasingly diversified, including oil and technology companies.
Bloomberg The Bloomberg Editorial Board has cited the FIA’s Global Fusion Industry in 2025 report, claiming that “ A long-hyped technology is starting to look more feasible. Congress should take notice ”.
The Bloomberg Editorial Board has cited the FIA’s Global Fusion Industry in 2025 report, claiming that “ A long-hyped technology is starting to look more feasible. Congress should take notice ”.
Financial Times The FT quotes the FIA Global Fusion Industry in 2025 report on how “in the 12 months to July fusion companies raised $2.6bn”.
The FT quotes the FIA Global Fusion Industry in 2025 report on how “in the 12 months to July fusion companies raised $2.6bn”.
Power Engineering International (PEI) PEI highlights how increased investment trends show confidence in fusion is rising says FIA
PEI highlights how increased investment trends show confidence in fusion is rising says FIA
The News International The News International states how “ fusion energy draws record global investment since 2022 ”, but that the rise in investment is still not enough to commercialize the industry.
The News International states how “ fusion energy draws record global investment since 2022 ”, but that the rise in investment is still not enough to commercialize the industry.
Business Green Business Green focuses on “ maturing investor confidence ” in the fusion industry, as funding more than doubles and is just shy of $10bn.
Business Green focuses on “ maturing investor confidence ” in the fusion industry, as funding more than doubles and is just shy of $10bn.
Economic Times of India The Economic Times of India reports that “ global fusion investment grew by $2.64… but companies said they need much more money to take the industry commercial .”
The Economic Times of India reports that “ global fusion investment grew by $2.64… but companies said they need much more money to take the industry commercial .”
Oilprice.com Oilprice.com reports “ Investor Confidence Fuels Nuclear Fusion Frenzy ” and highlights how public funding has surged by 84%.
Oilprice.com reports “ Investor Confidence Fuels Nuclear Fusion Frenzy ” and highlights how public funding has surged by 84%.
AInvest AInvest reports how “ Fusion Energy Investment Surges to $2.6bn, Reaches $9.77bn Total ” as “venture capital firms, industrial giants, and sovereign wealth funds have shown strong interest in fusion technology”.
AInvest reports how “ Fusion Energy Investment Surges to $2.6bn, Reaches $9.77bn Total ” as “venture capital firms, industrial giants, and sovereign wealth funds have shown strong interest in fusion technology”.
Envirotec Envirotec focuses on how “ fusion companies remain confident in their timelines for delivering fusion-generated electricity to the grid… before the end of the 2030s ”.
Envirotec focuses on how “ fusion companies remain confident in their timelines for delivering fusion-generated electricity to the grid… before the end of the 2030s ”.
Global Banking & Finance Review Global Banking & Finance Review covers that “ global investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 ”.
Global Banking & Finance Review covers that “ global investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 ”.
BOE Report BOE Report covers the report, noting the “ significant rise in global investment in fusion energy ”.
BOE Report covers the report, noting the “ significant rise in global investment in fusion energy ”.
Power Technology Power Technology focuses on how investment into fusion energy “ surges to $2.64bn ”.
Power Technology focuses on how investment into fusion energy “ surges to $2.64bn ”.
Scenari economici Italian Scenari economici investigates why there has been “ record investment into the promise of a clean energy future ”.
Italian Scenari economici investigates why there has been “ record investment into the promise of a clean energy future ”.
Oil & Gas 360 Oil & Gas 360 focuses on how increased “ investor confidence fuels nuclear fusion frenzy ”.
Oil & Gas 360 focuses on how increased “ investor confidence fuels nuclear fusion frenzy ”.
Energy Central Energy Central cites how “ Fusion startups just had their best year since 2022, pulling in $2.64bn in new funding ”. The news also featured as the main story on the Energy Central Daily Newsletter.
Energy Central cites how “ Fusion startups just had their best year since 2022, pulling in $2.64bn in new funding ”. The news also featured as the main story on the Energy Central Daily Newsletter.
NucNet NuNet covers how “Fusion Industry Sees Significant Increase In Funding, But Says Investment Remains ‘A Major Challenge” .
NuNet covers how “Fusion Industry Sees Significant Increase In Funding, But Says Investment Remains ‘A Major Challenge” .
ITER ITER covers the key takeaways from the FIA Global Fusion Industry in 2025 Report .
ITER covers the key takeaways from the FIA Global Fusion Industry in 2025 Report .
Nuclear Engineering International Nuclear Engineering International focuses on how “ Fusion funding hits record high ”, but also highlights the challenges that fusion companies face moving forward with development.
Nuclear Engineering International focuses on how “ Fusion funding hits record high ”, but also highlights the challenges that fusion companies face moving forward with development.
Power Engineering International Power Engineering International reports that “ Fusion Energy expected in early 2030s ” as indicated by the FIA 2025 survey.
Power Engineering International reports that “ Fusion Energy expected in early 2030s ” as indicated by the FIA 2025 survey.
Startup News Startup News covers the FIA report and how “Global Investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 ”.
Startup News covers the FIA report and how “Global Investment in fusion energy rises the most since 2022 ”.
Ignition News Ignition News reports that “ The Fusion Industry Pulls Near-Record Numbers ”, citing a 178% increase from 2024.
Ignition News reports that “ The Fusion Industry Pulls Near-Record Numbers ”, citing a 178% increase from 2024.
Axios Axios Generate, a daily newsletter covering business and energy, focuses on $2.64 billion – the total funding the fusion industry raised from July 2024 to July 2025.
Axios Generate, a daily newsletter covering business and energy, focuses on $2.64 billion – the total funding the fusion industry raised from July 2024 to July 2025.
World