Title: National Academies: Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid
URL: https://www.nationalacademies.org/projects/DEPS-BPA-20-03/publication/25991
Source Type: html
Domain: nationalacademies.org
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: Fusion Industry Association annual report 2024

Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid

Key Goals and Innovations Needed for a U.S. Fusion Pilot Plant
The Agentic AI Revolution and its Impact on the on the Planning, Assessment, Investment, and Accelerated Transition to the Field of Department of War's Materials Science & Technology Enterprise
Decadal Survey for Earth Science and Applications from Space 2028-2037 (ESAS 2028)
Review of Progress Toward the Decadal Survey Pathways to Discovery in Astronomy and Astrophysics for the 2020s
Action Collaborative: Mapping Progress and Opportunities to Inform Priorities to Improve the Quality of Serious Illness Research and Care
Preventing, Detecting and Responding to Substandard and Falsified Medical Products: A Workshop
Workshop Series on Resource Optimization for Critical Minerals: Recovery Strategies for Waste and Low-Grade Materials
Assessment of Technical and Scientific Capabilities at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
Review of Progress Toward the Decadal Survey Pathways to Discovery in Astronomy and Astrophysics for the 2020s
Decadal Survey for Earth Science and Applications from Space 2028-2037 (ESAS 2028)
An activity carried out by an appropriately knowledgeable and balanced ad hoc committee, the purpose of which is to provide formal advice on the matters posed in the statement of task for the activity. These activities follow institutional policies and procedures to adhere to Section 15 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA).
With the ITER experiment on track to begin operations in 5-10 years, the United States has the opportunity to begin planning for its first fusion energy pilot plant. This study will map out the high-level scientific, technical, and logistical goals and key innovations needed to support the development of a fusion test plant that can serve as a model for producing electricity at the lowest possible capital cost.
This is a follow-on activity to the 2019 National Academies report, the Final Report of the Committee on a Strategic Plan for U.S. Burning Plasma Research .
Fusion energy offers the prospect of addressing the nation's energy needs and contributing to the transition to a low-carbon emission electrical generation infrastructure. Technology and research results from U.S. investments in the major fusion burning plasma experiment known as ITER, coupled with...
The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) shall assemble a committee to provide guidance to the U.S. Department of Energy, and others, that are aligned with the objective of constructing a pilot plant in the United States that produces electricity from fusion at the lowest possible capital cost (“Pilot Plant”). In the study, to be completed within eight months of project initiation, the committee shall provide a concise report that addresses the following points - - In developing and carrying out a plan for building a Pilot Plant, key goals need to be established for all critical aspects of the Pilot Plant. Identify those key goals, independent of confinement concept, which a Pilot Plant must demonstrate during each of its anticipated phases of operation. - List the principal innovations needed for the private sector to address, perhaps in concert with efforts by DOE, to meet the key goals identified in the first bullet. Considerations In addressing the first bullet in the statement of task, the committee should consider the key goals for each of the plant's anticipated phases of operation. Areas for key goals that the committee might consider include scientific (e.g., materials and systems performance and integration), technical (e.g., electrical output and availability), economic (e.g., capital costs and time frame, operating and maintenance costs), environmental (e.g., level of radioactive wastes), and safety-related (e.g., regulatory, tritium inventory). In carrying out the statement of task, the committee is encouraged to seek input from potential “future owners” of power plants, such as electric utility companies, and potential manufacturers of fusion power plant components, to broadly characterize the energy market for fusion and to provide input on what they would look for in a fusion pilot plant and how such plants can contribute to national energy needs.
Center for Advancing Science and Technology
Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences
National Academy of Engineering Office of Programs
Board on Energy and Environmental Systems
Aeronautics, Space, and Astronomy Program Area
Driving progress for the benefit of society by providing independent, objective advice to advance science, engineering, and medicine.
© 2026 National Academy of Sciences. All Rights Reserved.
Our peer-reviewed reports present the evidence-based consensus of committees of experts.
The latest news and stories, with context you can trust.
Stay in the loop with can’t-miss sessions, live events, and activities happening over the next two days.
What discoveries will define America's next 250 years? Free to watch online.
Connecting policymakers with the National Academies
Answers to everyday science and health questions
Learn about membership to the three Academies
Information on building access, visitor requirements, and facility operations.
Our peer-reviewed reports present the evidence-based consensus of committees of experts.
The latest news and stories, with context you can trust.
Stay in the loop with can’t-miss sessions, live events, and activities happening over the next two days.
What discoveries will define America's next 250 years? Free to watch online.
Connecting policymakers with the National Academies
Answers to everyday science and health questions
Learn about membership to the three Academies
Information on building access, visitor requirements, and facility operations.
You must be logged in to download this publication.
You must be logged in to save this publication.
Fusion energy offers the prospect of addressing the nation's energy needs and contributing to the transition to a low-carbon emission electrical generation infrastructure. Technology and research results from U.S. investments in the major fusion burning plasma experiment known as ITER, coupled with a strong foundation of research funded by the Department of Energy (DOE), position the United States to begin planning for its first fusion pilot plant. Strong interest from the private sector is an additional motivating factor, as the process of decarbonizing and modernizing the nation's electric infrastructure accelerates and companies seek to lead the way.
At the request of DOE, Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid builds upon the work of the 2019 report Final Report of the Committee on a Strategic Plan for U.S. Burning Plasma Research to identify the key goals and innovations - independent of confinement concept - that are needed to support the development of a U.S. fusion pilot plant that can serve as a model for producing electricity at the lowest possible capital cost.
124 pages · 7 x 10 · paperback ISBN Paperback: 0-309-68538-9 ISBN Ebook: 0-309-68539-7 DOI: https://doi.org/10.17226/25991
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2021. Bringing Fusion to the U.S. Grid . Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.
Sign in to access your saved publications, downloads, and email preferences.
Former MyNAP users: You'll need to reset your password on your first login to MyAcademies. Click "Forgot password" below to receive a reset link via email. Having trouble? Visit our FAQ page to contact support.
Members of the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, or National Academy of Medicine should log in through their respective Academy portals.
While logged on as a guest, you can download any of our free PDFs on nationalacademies.org . You will remain logged in until you close your browser.
Thank you for creating a MyAcademies account!
Enjoy free access to thousands of National Academies' publications, a 10% discount off every purchase, and build your personal library.
Enter the email address for your MyAcademies (formerly MyNAP) account to receive password reset instructions.
We sent password reset instructions to your email . Follow the link in that email to create a new password. Didn't receive it? Check your spam folder or contact us for assistance.
We sent a verification link to your email. Please check your inbox (and spam folder) and follow the link to verify your email address. If you did not receive the email, you can request a new verification link below
Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board
Discover Trending Topics Transportation Artificial Intelligence Space, Security, and Conflicts See All Topics Our Work Consensus Studies Outreach Activities Standing Committees See All Work Our Publications Our peer-reviewed reports present the evidence-based consensus of committees of experts. Explore the Latest News and Stories The latest news and stories, with context you can trust.
Events Convening Activities Roundtable and F