Title: ITER project
URL: https://www.iter.org/
Source Type: html
Domain: iter.org
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: Commonwealth Fusion Systems SPARC progress 2025

ITER - the way to new energy

Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested. ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes. If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization . For more information, see our Privacy policy . Select your newsletters:
Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested. ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes. If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization . For more information, see our Privacy policy . Select your newsletters:
Fusion, the nuclear reaction that powers the Sun and the stars, is a promising long-term option for sustainable, non-carbon-emitting energy. Harnessing fusion's power is the goal of ITER—designed as the key experimental step between today's fusion research machines and tomorrow's fusion power plants.
Youtube est désactivé. Autoriser le dépôt de cookies pour accéder au contenu.
The goal of ITER is to achieve fusion power production at power plant scale, breaking new ground in fusion science and demonstrating fusion reactor technology.
China, the European Union, India, Japan, Korea, Russia and the United States are participating in the decades-long project to build and operate ITER, and to train the fusion scientists, engineers and operators of the future.
Conceived at the very frontier of what is possible to design, manufacture, and assemble, the ITER device— a tokamak —will be the world’s largest and most powerful, capable of creating a “little star” on Earth.
ITER ("The Way" in Latin) is one of the most ambitious energy projects in the world today.
ITER is charting new territory in fusion research. Join us.
Subscribe Subscribe to the newsletter Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested. ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes. If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization . For more information, see our Privacy policy . Select your newsletters:
About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location... ITER Overview The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance ITER in France History FAQs Legal Resources Visiting ITER
Fusion Energy Fusion Energy Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER. What is Fusion? Making it Work Advantages of Fusion 60 Years of Progress ITER Goals International Tokamak Research After ITER Fusion Glossary
The Machine The Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems. What is a Tokamak? The ITER Tokamak Supporting Systems Manufacturing Component Transport Safety + Environment
The Project The Project Follow the construction in southern France of the world's largest tokamak. Building ITER Projects Underway Construction Archives Neutral Beam Test Facility Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant Assembly Commissioning Assembly Tooling Metrology Project Milestones
News & Media News & Media The most recent photos, videos and publications of the ITER Organization. All News ITER Newsline Newsline archive News in French Events Press releases ITER Podcast ITER Mag Archives Photos Videos 3D Virtual Tour Publication Centre
For the Public For the Public Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos ITER Boutique Visits Education INFUSED: Educational Resources
For the Press For the Press All News Welcome Facts & Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary
For Scientists For Scientists ITPEA Private Sector Fusion Engagement Project Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER International School ITER Technical Reports IAEA Newsletters
Private Sector Fusion Engagement Project
For Industry For Industry ITER Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events Invoices Domestic Agency Corner
Subscribe Subscribe to the newsletter Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested. ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes. If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization . For more information, see our Privacy policy . Select your newsletters:
About ITER Overview The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance ITER in France History FAQs Legal Resources Visiting ITER
Fusion Energy What is Fusion? Making it Work Advantages of Fusion 60 Years of Progress ITER Goals International Tokamak Research After ITER Fusion Glossary
The Project CONSTRUCTION Building ITER Projects Underway Construction Archives Neutral Beam Test Facility ASSEMBLY Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant Assembly Commissioning Assembly Tooling Metrology MILESTONES Project Milestones
News & Media NEWS All News ITER Newsline Newsline archive News in French Events Press releases ITER Podcast ITER Mag Archives MULTIMEDIA Photos Videos 3D Virtual Tour Publication Centre
The Machine What is a Tokamak? The ITER Tokamak Supporting Systems Manufacturing Component Transport Safety + Environment
For the Public Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos ITER Boutique Visits Education INFUSED: Educational Resources
For the Press All News Welcome Facts & Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary
For Scientists ITPEA Private Sector Fusion Engagement Project Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER International School ITER Technical Reports IAEA Newsletters
Private Sector Fusion Engagement Project
For Industry ITER Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events Invoices Domestic Agency Corner