Title: U.S. DOE Fusion Energy
URL: https://www.energy.gov/fusion/fusion-energy
Source Type: html
Domain: energy.gov
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: SPARC fusion commercial operation date

Fusion Energy | Department of Energy

An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
The Fusion Science & Technology (S&T) Roadmap is a comprehensive national strategy to accelerate the development and commercialization of fusion energy by the mid-2030s.
It charts a clear path for federal support to the growing fusion energy industry, identifying critical science and technology gaps and defining the milestones needed to bring commercial fusion power to the grid. Developed with broad input from over 800 researchers, engineers, and industry stakeholders, the roadmap establishes DOE’s Build–Innovate–Grow strategy for advancing a robust and competitive U.S. fusion sector.
This effort advances President Trump’s Executive Order Unleashing American Energy , reinforcing the Administration’s commitment to expand domestic energy production and restore U.S. energy dominance. By accelerating progress toward commercial fusion power, DOE is strengthening America’s grid, rebuilding critical supply chains, and securing a new era of abundant, reliable, American-made energy.
The goal of the Fusion S&T Roadmap is to deliver the public infrastructure that supports the fusion private sector scale up in the 2030s.
The activities outlined in the Fusion S&T Roadmap are focused on prioritizing strategic directions for the DOE to further collaborate with the US Fusion Industry. DOE’s ability to support this Roadmap’s milestones and timelines of scaling up the domestic fusion private sector by the 2030s is contingent on the development of future public private partnerships. This Roadmap is not committing DOE to specific funding levels, and future funding will be subject to Congressional appropriations.
Committed to Restoring America’s Energy Dominance.
Policy & Priorities Main Menu Policy & Priorities View all Policy & Priorities Increase American Energy Production Expanding domestic energy resources to support national needs and economic growth. Energy Innovation Driving research and development to shape the future of energy systems and technologies. Energy Exports Supporting global energy markets through U.S. energy production and trade. Affordable Energy for Consumers Promoting access to reliable and cost-effective energy for households and businesses. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) Managing emergency fuel reserves to support national energy security. Nuclear Security Maintaining the safety, security, and effectiveness of the nation’s nuclear deterrent. Nuclear Energy Advancing nuclear technologies to support energy, security, and innovation goals. Energy Reliability Ensuring consistent and dependable energy delivery across the nation. Energy Infrastructure Strengthening and modernizing the systems that produce, deliver, and store energy.
Policy & Priorities View all Policy & Priorities
Increase American Energy Production Expanding domestic energy resources to support national needs and economic growth.
Energy Innovation Driving research and development to shape the future of energy systems and technologies.
Energy Exports Supporting global energy markets through U.S. energy production and trade.
Affordable Energy for Consumers Promoting access to reliable and cost-effective energy for households and businesses.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) Managing emergency fuel reserves to support national energy security.
Nuclear Security Maintaining the safety, security, and effectiveness of the nation’s nuclear deterrent.
Nuclear Energy Advancing nuclear technologies to support energy, security, and innovation goals.
Energy Reliability Ensuring consistent and dependable energy delivery across the nation.
Energy Infrastructure Strengthening and modernizing the systems that produce, deliver, and store energy.
Leadership & Organization Main Menu Leadership & Organization View all Leadership & Organization Chris Wright Secretary of Energy James Danly Deputy Secretary of Energy Leadership & Organization Pages Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services. Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas. Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department. Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery. National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System. Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense. Featured Hydrocarbons and Geothermal Energy Office
Leadership & Organization View all Leadership & Organization
Chris Wright Secretary of Energy James Danly Deputy Secretary of Energy
Leadership & Organization Pages Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services. Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas. Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department. Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery. National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System. Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense.
Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services.
Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas.
Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department.
Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery.
National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System.
Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense.
Featured Hydrocarbons and Geothermal Energy Office
Topics Main Menu Topics View all Topics Energy Sources Learn about the resources and technologies used to produce power across the United States. Energy Usage Explore how energy is consumed in homes, businesses, transportation, and industry. Policy Understand the laws, regulations, and strategies that guide energy decisions and national priorities. Science & Innovation See how research, discovery, and new technologies are shaping the future of energy. Economy Discover how energy affects jobs, markets, investment, and economic growth. National Security & Safety Learn how energy systems support resilience, infrastructure protection, and public safety.
Energy Sources Learn about the resources and technologies used to produce power across the United States.
Energy Usage Explore how energy is consumed in homes, businesses, transportation, and industry.
Policy Understand the laws, regulations, and strategies that guide energy decisions and national priorities.
Science & Innovation See how research, discovery, and new technologies are shaping the future of energy.
Economy Discover how energy affects jobs, markets, investment, and economic growth.
National Security & Safety Learn how energy systems support resilience, infrastructure protection, and public safety.
News & Events Main Menu News & Events View all News & Events Press Releases June 26, 2026 The West End Protected Area Reduction Project is Complete at NNSA’s Y-12 National Security Complex NNSA completed the West End Protected Area Reduction (WEPAR) Project, a major… Read more Nuclear Security Legacy View all Press Releases Fact Sheets FACT SHEET: The Department of Energy is Ensuring Affordable Energy Access in Ohio While Powering the Future of AI FACT SHEET: The Energy Department is Unleashing Beautiful, Clean Coal FACT SHEET: The Energy Department is Lowering Electricity Costs in Georgia and Alabama View all Fact Sheets Upcoming Events Jun 29 3:00PM EDT - 4:15PM EDT Modeling Combined Heat and Power Systems in REopt Jul 1 1:00PM EDT - 2:30PM EDT Electricity Cost Trends: Insights and Actions for Federal Energy Managers Jul 15 2:00PM EDT - 3:00PM EDT July Hydropower Testing Network Informational Webinar View all Events
Press Releases June 26, 2026 The West End Protected Area Reduction Project is Complete at NNSA’s Y-12 National Security Complex NNSA completed the West End Protected Area Reduction (WEPAR) Project, a major… Read more Nuclear Security Legacy View all Press Releases
Fact Sheets FACT SHEET: The Department of Energy is Ensuring Affordable Energy Access in Ohio While Powering the Future of AI FACT SHEET: The Energy Department is Unleashing Beautiful, Clean Coal FACT SHEET: The Energy Department