Title: Zap Energy how it works
URL: https://legacy.zapenergy.com/how-it-works
Source Type: html
Domain: legacy.zapenergy.com
Content Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Search Query: SPARC fusion commercial operation date

Zap Energy: How It Works

Zap's Key Innovation: Sheared-Flow Stabilization
In 1905, two Australian scientists confronted a mystery: A lightning rod from a kerosene refinery had been crushed and twisted, as if gripped by some phenomenal force. The culprit was a bolt of lightning, whose strike created a magnetic field so powerful that the hollow metal rod crumpled inward like cardboard. It was a stark demonstration of what’s now called the pinch effect, or Z pinch — an electromagnetic phenomenon that enabled the earliest experiments in fusion and revealed the most promising path to building a working fusion generator today.
Electric currents create magnetic fields.
The Z-pinch effect is an electromagnetic phenomenon where electric currents create magnetic fields so powerful that they compress matter.
If you run a powerful enough current through plasma, a Z pinch can create conditions hot and dense enough for fusion.
As every physics student learns, electric currents also create magnetic fields. Point your right thumb in the direction of a current and curl your fingers inward, and they will reveal the direction of the associated magnetic field (the "right hand rule"). A pinch happens when charged particles flow across those magnetic fields, for example when you run a current through a bundle of electric wires. Squeezed by these magnetic fields, the wires constrict like the crumpled lightning rod. The same thing happens if you run a current through a column of plasma, a state of matter packed with charged particles. This special kind of pinch is called a Z pinch, and the stronger the electric current, the more powerful its pinch becomes. With a powerful enough pinch, the plasma will get so hot and dense that the elements in the plasma fuse into entirely new elements. Z pinch is at the heart of Zap’s game-changing approach to energy.
Zap Energy confines plasma using the magnetic field generated by a powerful electrical current in the plasma instead of using external magnets.
The key to unlocking fusion energy is overcoming the forces that repel the nuclei at the centers of atoms. At extremely high temperatures and pressures, these nuclei get close enough to join together, or fuse, giving fusion its name. That means fusion is the opposite of fission, which splits atoms apart, leaving radioactive waste behind that lasts for generations. Instead, it’s the process that fuels stars, balls of hot plasma so massive that their gravity creates enough heat and pressure for fusion, radiating huge amounts of energy into space. Here on Earth, Zap Energy’s technology uses the science of the Z pinch to create the conditions for fusion.
Fusion energy is created when the forces separating the centers of atoms are overcome and two smaller nuclei fuse into a larger one.
Zap Energy’s fusion technology is designed to heat deuterium and tritium to millions of degrees Fahrenheit until they fuse into high-energy helium and neutrons, which can be captured to generate heat and electricity.
Pound for pound, the fuel for fusion releases 10 million times as much energy as coal.
Most fusion platforms run on hydrogen isotopes — atoms with extra neutrons — such as deuterium and tritium. When deuterium and tritium are compressed and heated to millions of degrees Fahrenheit their nuclei fuse and produce helium and an extra neutron that carry massive amounts of energy that can be captured and harnessed. Fusion has the potential to generate enormous amounts of electricity from relatively small amounts of fuel. Pound for pound, the deuterium and tritium used to fuel fusion produces around 10 million times as much energy as coal. That means all of the coal burned by the U.S. in a year could conceivably be replaced by a supply of fusion fuel light enough to fit in a couple of shipping containers.
To test and develop our devices we generate a thin line of the hot, gaseous state of matter known as plasma using a safe and abundant fuel called deuterium.
Z-pinch fusion holds the potential to provide clean, long-lasting energy for humanity, without the expensive, problematic magnets required by traditional approaches to fusion. But the intense repelling forces in a teeming hot plasma make it hard to confine them together for more than an instant — much less sustain plasmas for long enough to create meaningful amounts of fusion energy. While Z-pinch fusion was tested as far back as the 1950s, researchers were stymied by how quickly the plasmas fizzled out. Zap Energy solves that problem through sheared-flow stabilization — a plasma physics innovation that can theoretically extend the lifetime of a Z-pinched plasma almost indefinitely.
Keeping fusion reactions going is fundamentally difficult because plasmas quickly fizzle out.
Zap Energy’s key advance relies on considering the plasma as a dynamic moving flow, like a river.
Sheared-flow stabilization in a Z pinch — a plasma physics innovation pioneered by Zap Energy Co-Founder Uri Shumlak — can theoretically extend the lifetime of a Z-pinched plasma almost indefinitely.
Some compare the task of stabilizing a bundle of plasma to trying to hold jelly with rubber bands — the harder you squeeze, the more it will find a way to fall apart. These instabilities meant that early Z-pinch designs couldn’t hold a plasma long enough to create fusion. Zap Energy’s key innovation came from thinking of the plasma as a dynamic moving flow, like a river. In the 1990s, this theoretical breakthrough led Zap Energy Chief Scientist Uri Shumlak and his Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory collaborator Charles Hartman to conceptualize a platform based on sheared-flow stabilization. Inside our fusion cores, the stream of plasma is broken into slices that move at different speeds. For example, faster outer layers can smooth down instabilities, keeping slower inside layers steady. The end result is a stable plasma that can sustain fusion.
Uri Shumlak (left) developed the theory behind using sheared-flow stabilization for Z-pinch fusion. Zap Energy President Benj Conway (center) co-founded the company with Shumlak as Chief Science Officer and Brian A. Nelson (right) as Chief Technology Officer.
Each Zap device is part accelerator, part reaction chamber— a scientifically-architected device developed to be at the heart of a Zap Energy plant. During two decades in Shumlak’s lab at the University of Washington, a series of lower energy cores proved that sheared-flow-stabilized Z-pinch fusion works.
Zap Energy’s team has built a series of devices to test sheared-flow-stabilized Z-pinch fusion.
The higher the current in the Z pinch, the hotter and denser the plasma will be.
FuZE-Q, the latest Zap core, was designed to reach the long-sought point of Q=1, or scientific energy breakeven.
Since moving out of the university, Zap has sped its pace, injecting more and more current into our devices and climbing toward the elusive point of Q=1. Also known as scientific breakeven, Q=1 is where the fusion energy output equals the energy fed into the plasma. Benefiting from strong investment, smaller systems and much faster iterations than most approaches to fusion, Zap Energy’s R&D team is scaling toward Q=1 and beyond to the conditions needed for putting fusion power on the grid. Inside a working core, each Z pinch starts with a powerful pulse of electricity released by a bank of capacitors. This pulse jolts a cloud of deuterium gas into a flat ring of hot plasma. The disc races down the device’s inner cathode, or negatively-charged end. Once past the cathode’s nose cone, the plasma disc coalesces into a tight, sheared-flow column, with different layers flowing at different speeds. At this point, the plasma column measures about 50 centimeters long, just a millimeter wide and well over 10 million degrees Fahrenheit. The higher the current sent through the plasma, the tighter it will be constricted by magnetic fields and the hotter and denser it will become. Simulations show that in model conditions it takes less than one megaampere of current conducting through a stable Z pinch to reach Q>1. After reaching the limits of the 500 kiloamp power bank on a system called FuZE, Zap Energy built a fourth generation, named FuZE-Q. Both devices are currently used to generate fusion plasmas and rapidly advance sheared-flow-stabilized Z-pinch physics. FuZE-Q was built to operate with up to one megaamp of current. When FuZE-Q reaches Q=1, it will be a huge milestone for fusion technology, and a powerful proof-of-concept. To create a commercially viable fusion power plant, Zap engineers are developing systems that will operate repeatedly and reliably at one to two megaamps of current.
FuZE, shown here, is the third generation of our R&D Z-pinch fusion core. The equipment and instrumentation around the device measure the results of scientific tests.
When it comes to creating a commercial power plant, Zap Energy’s underlying technology offers major advantages. There’s no need for the giant facilities, supercond