Title: DOE FY 2027 Fusion Energy Sciences budget request
URL: https://www.energy.gov/documents/fy-2027-fusion-energy-sciences-budget-request
Source Type: pdf
Domain: energy.gov
Content Type: application/pdf
Search Query: SPARC fusion commercial operation date

Science/Fusion Energy Sciences FY 2027 Congressional Justification Fusion Energy Sciences Overview The Fusion Energy Sciences (FES) program is advancing in alignment with a set of national priorities that emphasize energy security, economic competitiveness, and U.S. technological leadership in accordance with the goals of the Department of Energy (DOE) Genesis Mission to integrate artificial intelligence (AI), high- performance computing, experimental facilities, and data infrastructure into a national discovery platform. The U.S. Fusion Science & Technology Roadmap (Roadmap) establishes a national strategy to close scientific and technological (S&T) gaps on the critical path toward fusion energy, supporting a new era of U.S. fusion energy leadership. In alignment with the DOE Genesis Mission Lighthouse Challenges, the AI-Fusion Digital Convergence Platform (DCP) will accelerate sustaining burning plasmas and materials discovery to harness fusion power using the most sophisticated AI models ever developed. Targeted Quantum Information Science (QIS) investments leverage transformative tools for plasma science, materials research, and diagnostics in extreme environments. The FES mission is to drive the S&T foundation for a fusion energy source and support the development of a competitive U.S. fusion energy industry. The Roadmap is DOE’s strategy to "Build", "Innovate", and "Grow" a leading, robust American fusion energy industry, and ensures that FES core research aligns with closing gaps along the critical path to fusion energy. It’s six Core Challenge Areas are strongly aligned to the 2020 Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (FESAC) Long-Range Plan (LRP): structural materials, plasma-facing components and plasma-material interactions, confinement approaches, the fuel cycle, blankets, and fusion plant engineering and system integration. FES supports advancing multiple confinement concepts. The Sustain a Burning Plasma element includes research and development (R&D) on U.S. world-leading short-pulse toroidal facilities (e.g., DIII-D and National Spherical Torus Experiment-Upgrade [NSTX-U]) that support AI-fusion convergence, optimize magnetic confinement regimes and test prototypic fusion technology, while also enabling international collaborations on long pulse facilities abroad. Inertial Fusion Energy (IFE) hubs support rapid growth of IFE approaches. U.S. participation in ITER provides U.S. scientists access to an industrial scale burning plasma experimental facility and helps build the American fusion energy supply chain. Fusion Innovation Research Engine (FIRE) Collaboratives bridge basic science with the needs of the growing fusion industry, to address S&T gaps informed by the private sector. Complementing FIRE is a suite of public-private partnership (PPP) programs. The Milestone-Based Fusion Energy Development Program supports fusion development companies to establish viable fusion pilot plant (FPP) designs. The Innovation Network for Fusion Energy (INFUSE) provides vouchers to fusion startups to access expertise and capabilities at national labs and universities. The Private Facility Research (PFR) program leverages private capital investment by supporting research on private facilities to advance S&T for public benefit. The Public Private Consortium Framework (PPCF) supports Fusion Bringing Regional Investments to Develop & Grow fusion Engines (Fusion BRIDGE) to cost-share small and medium-scale test stands to de-risk critical fusion materials and technologies. Fusion Materials and Internal Components address the development of novel materials and technologies that can withstand enormous heat and neutron exposure. The Material Plasma Exposure eXperiment (MPEX) facility will address knowledge gaps in plasma-material interactions, and a new design activity to evaluate a mission need for a Fusion Prototypical Neutron Source (FPNS) to address the highest priority facility need identified by the FESAC LRP. Closing the Fusion Cycle develops the breeding and processing technology for fusion fuels that ensure fusion is a self-sustaining energy source. This includes a strategy to develop test stands and components along a path to developing integrated blanket and fuel cycle testing capabilities. FES supports fusion theory and simulation to enable prediction and interpretation of complex plasma phenomena and fusion technology, and to provide validated high-fidelity physical models for plant design. To steward advanced computation for fusion energy, FES supports Scientific Discovery through Advanced 130
Science/Fusion Energy Sciences FY 2027 Congressional Justification Computing (SciDAC) portfolio, in partnership with the Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ASCR) program. FES supports plasma science and technology research areas such as plasma astrophysics, space plasmas, plasma propulsion, high-energy-density laboratory plasmas (HEDLP), and low-temperature plasmas. Practical societal applications of plasmas are found in plasma processing of advanced materials, plasma-enabled chemical processing, and plasma medicine. Within SC, FES invests in several cross-cutting initiatives such as AI and machine learning (AI/ML), QIS, and microelectronics. With continued funding for the Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR), FES builds strategic programs to enhance SC-sponsored fusion-relevant research in key states and territories. Highlights of the FY 2027 Request The FES FY 2027 Request of $755.3 million is a decrease of $50.406 million below FY 2026 Enacted, with reduced funding for core research to offset increases for high priority research activities and facility operations. The Request is aligned to support the overall U.S. fusion strategy and the Roadmap, including reviewing partnerships and investment approaches to quickly advance fusion energy. The Request aligns with recommendations in the FESAC LRP. The FY 2027 Request includes: Research  DIII-D research: Exploit novel heating and current drive systems to test, integrate, and demonstrate advanced operation of these systems in support of the global supply chain for plasma actuators. Support publicly and privately funded facility users to close high priority gaps for pulsed and steady-state tokamak operational scenarios.  NSTX-U research: Begin NSTX-U plasma experiments. Support collaborative research related to the optimization of tokamak aspect ratio and high field conventional tokamak studies in support of FPP development.  Partnerships with the private sector: For the Milestone-Based Fusion Development Program, support subsequent phases of research and commercialization activities of the teams that successfully met their initial milestones; continue the INFUSE program; and support the PFR program, where private fusion companies offer their facilities at no cost to public sector sponsored researchers to perform mutually beneficial, open research. In addition, Fusion BRIDGE explores modalities that support PPPs and regional consortia aimed at developing and building small, medium, and large-scale capabilities, including test stands. These efforts are targeted toward closing critical Fusion Materials and Technology (FM&T) gaps defined by both the public and private sectors.  IFE: Expand research activities, including the IFE Science & Technology Accelerated Research (STAR) hubs and the IFE ecosystem stewardship. Additionally, initiate advanced modeling, simulation, and AI/ML capabilities to bridge S&T gaps and accelerate the development of an IFE FPP.  FIRE Collaboratives: Strengthen support for the multi-institutional, multi-disciplinary R&D efforts to address critical S&T gaps outlined in the FESAC LRP and support public and private FPP efforts. The Request supports multiple collaboratives in four technical areas: advanced simulation, materials, blanket/fuel cycle, and enabling technologies.  Fusion Materials and Internal Components: Initiate evaluation of a mission need for a FPNS facility. FPNS was the highest priority new facility in the FESAC LRP. The FPNS facility would enable investigation of the effects of fusion-relevant irradiation on material properties degradation in this harsh burning plasma environment. This capability will provide a better understanding of materials performance and lifetime limits from an engineering science perspective as well as supporting the development of structural and plasma facing materials for use in a next-step fusion device.  Closing the Fusion Cycle: Initiate design of an Integrated Blanket and Fuel Cycle Test Facility (IB-FCTF), consistent with recent FESAC reports and following design and cost estimate work in FY 2026. The 131
Science/Fusion Energy Sciences FY 2027 Congressional Justification approach to delivering an IB-FCTF will be a phased approach that delivers component capabilities integrated over time, to support closing the critical S&T gaps identified in the Roadmap blanket and fuel cycl