Title: DOE Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap
URL: https://www.energy.gov/articles/energy-department-announces-fusion-science-and-technology-roadmap-accelerate-commercial
Source Type: html
Domain: energy.gov
Content Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Search Query: fusion energy market size 2030 2040 2050

Energy Department Announces Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap to Accelerate Commercial Fusion Power | Department of Energy

Energy Department Announces Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap to Accelerate Commercial Fusion Power
An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
The U.S. Department of Energy released its Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap, a national strategy to accelerate the development and commercialization of fusion energy on the most rapid, responsible timeline in history
WASHINGTON —The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) released its Fusion Science and Technology (FS&T) Roadmap, a national strategy to accelerate the development and commercialization of fusion energy on the most rapid, responsible timeline in history. The Roadmap defines DOE’s Build–Innovate–Grow strategy to align public investment and private innovation to deliver commercial fusion power to the grid by the mid-2030s.
This effort advances President Trump’s Executive Order Unleashing American Energy , reinforcing the Administration’s commitment to expand domestic energy production and restore U.S. energy dominance. By accelerating progress toward commercial fusion power, DOE is strengthening America’s grid, rebuilding critical supply chains, and securing a new era of abundant, reliable, American-made energy.
“The Fusion Science and Technology Roadmap brings unprecedented coordination across America's fusion enterprise,” said Energy Department Under Secretary for Science Dr. Darío Gil . “For the first time, DOE, industry, and our National Labs will be aligned with a shared purpose—to accelerate the path to commercial fusion power and strengthen America’s leadership in energy innovation. Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, the Department is streamlining the full strength of the U.S. scientific and industrial base to deliver fusion energy faster than ever before.”
The FS&T Roadmap was unveiled as part of a series of U.S. Fusion Energy Enterprise Events being held this week in Washington, D.C. this week. The Summit brings together leaders from government, industry, and academia to discuss the future of American fusion energy.
Developed with input from more than 600 scientists, engineers, and industry stakeholders, the Roadmap identifies the key research, materials, and technology gaps that must be closed to realize a Fusion Pilot Plant (FPP) and strengthen U.S. leadership in the global fusion industry.
The FS&T Roadmap establishes a unified strategy for the U.S. fusion enterprise built around three primary drivers:
“Fusion is real, near, and ready for coordinated action,” said Jean Paul Allain, Associate Director of DOE’s Office of Fusion Energy Sciences . “This roadmap provides the strategic foundation for building the scientific, technical, and industrial base needed to ensure American leadership in commercial fusion on an ambitious timeline.”
With more than $9 billion in private investment already advancing burning-plasma demonstrations and prototype reactor designs, DOE is coordinating a national effort to close the remaining technical gaps—spanning materials, plasma systems, fuel cycles, and plant engineering. Through the Build–Innovate–Grow strategy, DOE and its partners across national laboratories, industry, universities, and allied nations are strengthening domestic supply chains, advancing fusion science, and securing America’s leadership in the race to deliver commercial fusion energy. The Roadmap outlines DOE’s plan to address these challenges through coordinated investments in six core fusion science and technology areas: structural materials, plasma-facing components, confinement systems, fuel cycle, blankets, and plant engineering and integration.
The activities outlined in the Fusion S&T Roadmap are focused on prioritizing strategic directions for the DOE to further collaborate with the US Fusion Industry. DOE’s ability to support this Roadmap’s milestones and timelines of scaling up the domestic fusion private sector by the 2030s is contingent on the development of future public private partnerships. This Roadmap is not committing DOE to specific funding levels, and future funding will be subject to Congressional appropriations.
A full copy of the Fusion Science & Technology Roadmap can be found at https://www.energy.gov/fusion-energy .
Committed to Restoring America’s Energy Dominance.
Policy & Priorities Main Menu Policy & Priorities View all Policy & Priorities Increase American Energy Production Expanding domestic energy resources to support national needs and economic growth. Energy Innovation Driving research and development to shape the future of energy systems and technologies. Energy Exports Supporting global energy markets through U.S. energy production and trade. Affordable Energy for Consumers Promoting access to reliable and cost-effective energy for households and businesses. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) Managing emergency fuel reserves to support national energy security. Nuclear Security Maintaining the safety, security, and effectiveness of the nation’s nuclear deterrent. Nuclear Energy Advancing nuclear technologies to support energy, security, and innovation goals. Energy Reliability Ensuring consistent and dependable energy delivery across the nation. Energy Infrastructure Strengthening and modernizing the systems that produce, deliver, and store energy.
Policy & Priorities View all Policy & Priorities
Increase American Energy Production Expanding domestic energy resources to support national needs and economic growth.
Energy Innovation Driving research and development to shape the future of energy systems and technologies.
Energy Exports Supporting global energy markets through U.S. energy production and trade.
Affordable Energy for Consumers Promoting access to reliable and cost-effective energy for households and businesses.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) Managing emergency fuel reserves to support national energy security.
Nuclear Security Maintaining the safety, security, and effectiveness of the nation’s nuclear deterrent.
Nuclear Energy Advancing nuclear technologies to support energy, security, and innovation goals.
Energy Reliability Ensuring consistent and dependable energy delivery across the nation.
Energy Infrastructure Strengthening and modernizing the systems that produce, deliver, and store energy.
Leadership & Organization Main Menu Leadership & Organization View all Leadership & Organization Chris Wright Secretary of Energy James Danly Deputy Secretary of Energy Leadership & Organization Pages Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services. Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas. Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department. Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery. National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System. Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense. Featured Hydrocarbons and Geothermal Energy Office
Leadership & Organization View all Leadership & Organization
Chris Wright Secretary of Energy James Danly Deputy Secretary of Energy
Leadership & Organization Pages Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services. Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas. Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department. Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery. National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System. Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense.
Staff Offices Supporting DOE operations through policy, administration, and mission services.
Science and Innovation Program Offices Leading scientific research and technology development across priority areas.
Independent Offices Providing oversight and specialized functions across key areas of the Department.
Energy Program Offices Managing programs that support energy production, efficiency, and delivery.
National Laboratories Advancing research and innovation through DOE’s National Laboratory System.
Nuclear Security Offices Overseeing national security efforts related to nuclear safety and defense.
Featured Hydrocarbons and Geothermal Energy Office
Topics Main Menu Topics View all Topics Energy Sources Learn about the resources and technologies used to produce power across the United States. Energy Usage Explore how energy