DeepSeek returned invalid JSON and automatic repair failed. Initial parse error: Expecting ',' delimiter. Nearby text:  "Japan": [60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110],         "Other": [40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90]       },       "source_note": "Patent data from WIPO and national patent offices. Figures are approximate and may include multiple filings per invention."     }: line 405 column 6 (char 39870). Repair parse error: Expecting ',' delimiter. Nearby text: on Development Program. The EU is investing in ITER and domestic projects like DEMO. The UK has a strategy to build a prototype fusion plant by 2040. Japan is a key partner in ITER and has its own JT-60SA tokamak. The evidence pack lacks" }: line 241 column 2 (char 24002). Final local repair error: Expecting ',' delimiter. Nearby text: on Development Program. The EU is investing in ITER and domestic projects like DEMO. The UK has a strategy to build a prototype fusion plant by 2040. Japan is a key partner in ITER and has its own JT-60SA tokamak. The evidence pack lacks" }: line 241 column 2 (char 24002). Raw response excerpt: {
  "report_title": "Nuclear Fusion Commercialization Outlook and Strategic Implications",
  "report_subtitle": "A Decision-Ready Analysis for Senior Executives and Strategic Planners",
  "executive_summary": "Nuclear fusion is approaching technical feasibility, but commercial viability remains uncertain before 2040. The decision for organizations is whether to invest now or wait for clearer milestones. Fusion's strategic value lies in firm, dispatchable clean power for grid stability and hard-to-abate sectors, yet it faces high capital costs, long construction times, and unresolved challenges in tritium breeding and materials. Geopolitical competition is intensifying, with China and the US leading, creating supply chain and intellectual property risks. Immediate next steps include monitoring key milestones, forming partnerships with leading startups, and engaging in regulatory discussions to shape licensing frameworks.",
  "executive_summary_text": "Nuclear fusion is approaching technical feasibility, but commercial viability remains uncertain before 2040. The decision for organizations is whether to invest now or wait for clearer milestones. Fusion's strategic value lies in firm,